The lightning bolt zig zagged across the sky, renting the night into two. Jaya and Vijaya stood staring up at the sky, their faces lit by the lightening. It was a tumultous night. The air was thick was thick with the rumble of thunder. Wind swept leaves danced and frollicked madly, chasing each other and splaying themselves on the walls of the prison like all hell was about to break loose.
And from deep within the confines of that prison, a single cry went up. Thin and scrawny, the baby's bawling carried even above the noise of the wind, broken by the rumble of thunder and yet sped by it, as if the thunder were both the cause and the effect of thre baby's birth. The two sentries looked at each other, each equally unsure of what he was hearing, but finding confidence in the other's doubts their eyes slowly widened in a slow settling shock.
They ran inside, spears thumping on the ground as they tried to find the maximum purchase on the wet floor. Their faces were dripping with a rain that had just started, but their shivers weren't caused by the rain. The rain was actually warm, a revelous, celebratory rainfall that had started all across the land, bringing fresh cheer to farms and farm hands, the herds of birds nesting or otherwise, and the cows lazing in the in their goshalas. Aross the land, that baby's cry could be heard, for it was one with the wind itself.

They ran towards the dungeons, where they guesses the sound must be coming from. It wasn't an unreasonable guess, given that there was only one female prisoner in the whole place, and she was expecting. 
Devaki's face glistened in the pale moonlight that eked in through the bars of the tiny window of her prison cell. Her face was wet with tears and sweat- sweat from exhaustion but tears of joy. Her face reflected the great battle of childbirth, and she looked victorious in a way that was beyond victory. She lay crumpled on her side, exhausted but not spent, and she beheld the fruit of her labour in her lap. 

Jaya saw it first, and he stopped in his tracks, despite himself, out of sheer stupefaction. Vijaya followed his gaze joined him in paralysis, both as still as statues. For the sight they beheld was unlike any they had seen before. Crying, mumbling, cribbing and wailing, the little thing in Devaki's arms was unapologetically beautiful.
